Internals of Consumer Group:

Consumer group is the Logical entity in kafka ecosystem which mainly provides parallal processing/Scalable message consumption to consumer clients.

1. Each consumer is associated with some consumer group.
2. Makes sure there is no duplication within consumers who are part of the same consumer group.


Consumer group rebalancing :

The process of re-distributing partitions to the consumers within a consumer group is known as Consumer Group rebalancing.

Rebalancing of consumer group happens in below cases:
1.  A Consumer joining the consumer group.
2. A Consumer leaving the consumer group.
3. If partitions are added to the topics which these consumers are interested in.
4. If a partitions goes in offline state.


Group Coordinator:

1. Brokers in the kafka Cluster are assigned as a group Coordinator for a subset of consumer groups.
2. Group Coordinator basically maintains/manages a list of consumer groups.
3. Group Coordinator initiates the rebalance process call.
4. Group Coordinator communicates the new assignment of partitions to all the comsumers.

Note: Until the rebalance process is not finished, the consumers within the consumers group(Whose rebalance is happening) will be blocked for any message reads.


Group Leader:

1. First consumer to join to the consumer group is elected as a group leader.
2. Group leader has the list of active members and the selected assignment strategy.
3. Group leader executes the rebalance process.
4. Group leader sends the new assignment of partitions to the group Coordinator.


* What happens when consumer joins the consumer group.

1. When a consumer starts, It sends "FindCoordinator" request to obtain the group Coordinator which is responsible for its group.
2. Then the consumer initiates the rebalance protocol by sending a "JoinGroup" request.
3. Next, all members of that consumer group send a "SyncGroup" request to the Coordinator.
4. Each consumer periodically sends a "Heatbeat" request to the group Coordinator to keep its session alive.


